---
layout: item
format: photo
title: "Willa Tavernier"
author: "Willa Tavernier"
contributor: "Willa Tavernier"
group: ADD CFBC History
creator: Willa Liburd
externalurl:
embedurl:
creationdate: "2018-09"
type: "Photo"
shortdesc: " First State Scholar of the Clarence Fitzroy Bryant College."
contributorquote:
categories: [Biography]
tags: [  ]
teammember: Sonita Daniel
---

## About This Item 


Willa Liburd Tavernier is the Research Impact & Open Scholarship Librarian at Indiana University Bloomington. IU Bloomington is an R1 public research university in the United States and member of the Association of American Universities (AAU), an invitation-only organization of US & Canadian doctoral granting universities devoted to maintaining a strong system of academic research and education, whose member universities receive 61% of all research grants in the US & Canada.
Willa assists faculty and graduate students with tracking the impact of their research and curating their digital scholarly profiles. She conducts bibliographic analysis of  IU Bloomington’s research output, assists with strategic planning for the Scholarly Communication department and with administration of the institutional repository. She is responsible for strategic planning for research information systems.
Willa frequently lectures on information literacy, open initiatives, research information systems, and other issues in scholarly communication. She has worked on various initiatives, including the launch of the Digital Survival Skills e-Badge certification program at IU Bloomington, and the launch of the IU Libraries Course Material Transformation Fellowship. Willa has presented at the Association of College and Research Libraries 2021, the Black Caucus of the American Library Association 2021, Library Publishing Forum 2020, and NASIG 2019.
Her current research looks at equitable scholarly communication, specifically governance and sustainability, from the perspectives of both systems and labour.
Willa serves as a board member of the Library Publishing Coalition and Secretary of NASIG (formerly the North American Serials Interest Group, Inc.). Previously, she has served on the NASIG Digital Preservation Committee and the Library Publishing Coalition's Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Task Force. Willa also participates in the Association of College and Research Libraries Residency Interest Group (RIG), serving on its assessment team and subgroup on diversity residencies. She received a Library Publishing Coalition Exemplary Service Award in 2020.
Willa most enjoys working as a mentor with the IU Bloomington Graduate Mentoring Center and the IU Bloomington Center for Women & Technology. She has mentored graduate and undergraduate women with a view to equipping them with the resilience and practical skills to succeed.
Willa Liburd Tavernier holds an MLIS (Hons)  from the School of Library and Information Science and a Graduate Certificate in College Teaching from the School of Education both at the University of Iowa. She holds a Master of Laws (Hons) from American University Washington College of Law, a Legal Education Certificate (Hons) from Norman Manley Law School, and a Bachelor of Laws (Hons) from the University of the West Indies at Cave Hill.
 
Before joining IU Bloomington, Willa was a partner at O’Neal Webster, a full service law firm in the British Virgin Islands. Her practice focused on Property & Business for Ultra High Net Worth clients, earning distinctions as
•        A Legal500 — “Recommended Lawyer” ‘Fantastic ethos in terms of service level.’
•        Citywealth “Leaders List”
•        Citywealth IFC “Powerwomen” Top 100
 
She remains Of Counsel to the Property & Business department of O’Neal Webster, as well as advising the firm on legal knowledge management best practices and legal technology solutions.
