---
layout: item
format: photo
title: La Vírgen de la Caridad del Cobre (Sculpture)
author: "Unknown"
contributor: "Michelle Dalmau"
group: "IDAH"
creator: "Unknown"
externalurl: 
embedurl: 
creationdate: "Unknown"
type: "tactile material"
shortdesc: "Hand-made folk art sculpture depicting La Virgén de la Caridad del Cobre, who is Cuba’s patron saint, in a shrine."
contributorquote: 
categories: [Religious Artifacts, Cuba]
tags: [  ]
teammember: 
---


## About This Item

The sculpture of the *La Vírgen de la Caridad del Cobre* depicts the Virgin Mary in yellow, which is the color associated with this manifestation of Mary, at sea. Beneath her is a row boat made up if two indigenous brothers and an enslaved African child: Rodrigo and Juan de Hoyos and Juan Moreno. The three individuals set out to sea for the purpose of gathering salt for food preservation. They encountered a violent storm. As they prayed for their safety, the skies cleared, the seas calmed and the found a sculpture depicting the Virgin Mary, completely dry despite floating in the sea. The town which adopted the sculpture by building a chapel, El Cobre, was a copper mining town. The base of the sculpture contains reflective specs reminiscent of copper. The top and bottom of the shrine is made of found wood. [Wikipedia](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&ved=2ahUKEwihhqOisKCAAxWyj4kEHTbkBwMQFnoECCQQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fen.wikipedia.org%2Fwiki%2FOur_Lady_of_Charity&usg=AOvVaw3JYt5ulRKYckefS0SCajjp&opi=89978449)

## From the Contributor 
I purchased this from a local artist in a coastal town, Varadero, Cuba because it reminds me of my grandmother. Caridad was my grandmother's given name. Every year we celebrated her name day, which is the same as La Caridad's feast day, September 8. This celebration at my grandparent's house was composed of both sacred rituals like lighting of candles, offerings for the saint, etc., and secular, family interactions like eating and conversations. The yearly gatherings standout vividly in my mind. ***It was an important day for my grandmother, and my grandmother was incredibly important to me.***  

