---
layout: item
format: photo
title: Hermia E. "Morton Anthony"
author: "Hermia E. Morton Anthony"
contributor: "Hermia E. Morton Anthony"
group: "Unknown"
creator: "Hermia E. Morton Anthony"
externalurl: 
embedurl: 
creationdate: "Unknown"
type: "digital image"
shortdesc: "Hermia E. Morton Anthony has  served as Registrar and later, Principal and President of the Clarence Fitzroy Bryant College, St. Kitts"
categories: [ Biography ]
tags: [Jose Dasent]
teammember: Jose Dasent
---

## About This Item

Hermia E. Morton Anthony holds a Ph.D. (University of Toronto); D.Litt. (CCC Graduate School of Theology) M.A. & B.A Hons. (York University) and attended the Basseterre High School and Newton Ground Primary School. She served as Registrar and later, Principal and President of the Clarence Fitzroy Bryant College, St. Kitts where she transitioned the institution to a semi-autonomy governed by a Board of Governors, replaced the British based GCE curriculum with the Caribbean-based CAPE curricula and assessment, and initiated the online environment at the college. During her tenure the college introduced Associate Degree programs and initiated a Bachelor’s Degree in Nursing. She served as a Board member of the University of the West Indies Campus Councils and on the Board of the Caribbean Knowledge Network, the Board of Governors of the Institute for Higher Education in Latin America & the Caribbean (IESALC) and Executive Member, United Nations Follow-Up Committee for a Higher Education Space in Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean (EULAC).In St. Kitts and Nevis she taught at the Basseterre Junior High School, Charles E Mills Secondary School (formerly SPHS), Charlestown Secondary School and Sixth Form College and the UWI School of Continuing Studies (formerly UWI Extra Mural Department).She has also taught in St. Lucia, Kenya currently teaches in Canada. She is owner and principal consultant of Knowledge Innovations International (Kii), a consulting firm. She perceives education as activism and promotes indigenous literacies.
